Add section on async ecosystem (#104)
rust-lang/async-book: src/08_ecosystem/00_chapter.md

> # The Async Ecosystem

Reviewer: Insert line breaks in this file?

Author: Everything should be below the github line limit now and looks fine to me in mdbook serve. Is there anything else you meant by this comment?

> Most Rust asynchronous projects will need third-party crates to function.

Reviewer: nit: Maybe crates provided by the community? "third-party" is used a lot at companies who normally roll their own "first-party" stuff, but others may not use this term.

> The `futures` crate contains traits and functions useful for writing async code.

Reviewer: link?

In addition, there are several crates that provide async runtimes,
which are used to run asynchronous functions from synchronous code.
This section introduces the crates most commonly used in async projects.

## Asynchronous Runtimes
Async runtimes are libraries that allow async functions to be run from sync functions, including the `main` function.
Runtimes usually bundle together a *reactor* with one or more *executors*.

> Reactors can be thought of as event queues.

Reviewer: The reactor is responsible for async IO and timers, not tasks which is suggested in this paragraph (AFAIU - we don't use this distinction in Fuchsia). I think it's also worth pointing out that futures that interact with async IO or timers are tied to a specific reactor implementation. This is a main source of the lack of runtime interoperability.

Author: Can you explain more what it means for the reactor to be responsible for async IO and timers? My mental picture of this was "there is a task to read from a file, but something else has a lock on the file; the executor puts the task to sleep, and the reactor notifies the executor when the lock is released or when the task can make progress again" or something along those lines. I'm now realizing that's not quite correct but I'm not sure what a more accurate description would be.

Reviewer: Leaving open for offline chat.

When an event occurs, such as readable data becoming available in a socket,
the reactor is responsible for adding a task to the queue to process this event.

> An executor handles execution of any tasks in the event queue.

Reviewer: the scheduling and execution

These utilities and traits may eventually become part of the standard library.
`futures` has an executor, `futures-executor`, but a common choice is to use utilities from `futures` with an
executor from another crate.
- [Tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio/): A popular async ecosystem with HTTP, gRPC, and tracing frameworks.
- [async-std](https://docs.rs/async-std/): A crate that provides asynchronous counterparts to standard library components.
- [smol](https://docs.rs/smol/): A small, simplified async runtime.
Provides the `Async` trait that can be used to wrap structs like `UnixStream` or `TcpListener`.
- [fuchsia-async](https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/fuchsia/+/master/src/lib/fuchsia-async/): An executor for use in the Fuchsia OS.

Not all async runtimes are compatible with each other.
Notably, `Tokio` uses the `mio` reactor and defines its own versions of async I/O traits, including `AsyncRead` and `AsyncWrite`.
It's not compatible with `async-std` and `smol`, which rely on the [`async-executor` crate](https://docs.rs/async-executor).
The [`async_compat` crate](https://docs.rs/async_compat) can be used for compatibility between `Tokio` and other runtimes.

> If possible, libraries should not depend on specific runtimes.

Reviewer: Perhaps clarify where it is necessary:

Libraries that expose async APIs generally should not depend on a specific executor or reactor, unless:

- It needs to spawn its own tasks
- Defines its own async IO or timer futures

Author: Can you explain more what you mean about defining your own async IO or timer futures? and what's an example of a situation where it's better to spawn tasks in the library than in a binary?

Author: Resolving as it doesn't sound like additional changes are necessary here.

Ideally, only binaries should be responsible for scheduling and running tasks.

> ## Single Threading vs Multithreading

Reviewer: Perhaps mention the pros/cons of multithreading:

A multi-threaded executor makes progress on several tasks simultaneously. It can speed up the execution greatly for workloads with many tasks, but be aware that synchronizing data between tasks is usually more expensive. It is recommended to measure performance for your application when you are choosing between a single- and a multi-threaded runtime.

Async executors can be single-threaded or multi-threaded.
For example, the `async-executor` crate has both a single-threaded `LocalExecutor` and a multi-threaded `Executor`.

Tasks can either be run on the thread that created them or on a separate thread.
Async runtimes often provide functionality for spawning tasks onto separate threads.
Even if tasks are executed on separate threads, they should still be non-blocking.

> Tasks are usually also required to be `Send`, so they can be moved to separate threads.

Reviewer: nit: In order to schedule tasks on a multi-threaded executor, it needs to be `Send`...

> Some runtimes provide functions for spawning non-`Send` tasks onto a thread-local executor.

Reviewer: nit: It can still be part of a multi-thread executor, only that this task can't be moved. Perhaps "...that are always executed on the same thread that spawned it"?

Author: rephrased but it still feels a bit awkward, lmk what you think.

Reviewer: Looks good.

nit: "ensures a task is executed on the thread that spawned it"?

(Reducing the pluralism for clarity)

They may also provide functions for spawning blocking tasks onto dedicated threads,

> which is useful for running synchronous code from other libraries.

Reviewer: nit: blocking synchronous code (e.g. heavy computation)

(Synchronous code is fine in async, as long as it's non-blocking.)

> # The Async Ecosystem

Author: I was actually using it here to describe the set of crates that makes up "async Rust", but I prefer this way. Changing to "async landscape" to minimize confusion.

> # The Async Ecosystem

Reviewer: Nit, but ecosystem seems fine as a heading.

Most Rust asynchronous projects will need crates provided by the community to function.
The [`futures` crate](https://docs.rs/futures/) contains traits and functions useful for writing async code.
In addition, there are several crates that provide async runtimes,
which are used to run asynchronous functions from synchronous code.
This section introduces the crates most commonly used in async projects.

## Asynchronous Runtimes

> Async runtimes are libraries that allow async functions to be run from sync functions, including the `main` function.

Reviewer: > libraries that allow async functions to be run from sync functions

While true, it could be clearer to say "libraries that execute async applications"

## Choosing a Runtime
There is no asynchronous runtime in the standard library, and none are officially recommended.
The following crates provide popular runtimes.

- [futures](https://docs.rs/futures/): The `futures` crate is not an async ecosystem like other crates in this list,
but it provides useful traits like `Stream`, `Sink`, `AsyncRead`, and `AsyncWrite`, and utilities such as combinators.
These utilities and traits may eventually become part of the standard library.
`futures` has an executor, `futures-executor`, but a common choice is to use utilities from `futures` with an
executor from another crate.
- [Tokio](https://docs.rs/tokio/): A popular async ecosystem with HTTP, gRPC, and tracing frameworks.
- [async-std](https://docs.rs/async-std/): A crate that provides asynchronous counterparts to standard library components.
- [smol](https://docs.rs/smol/): A small, simplified async runtime.
Provides the `Async` trait that can be used to wrap structs like `UnixStream` or `TcpListener`.
- [fuchsia-async](https://fuchsia.googlesource.com/fuchsia/+/master/src/lib/fuchsia-async/):
An executor for use in the Fuchsia OS.

> Not all async runtimes are compatible with each other.

Author: I ended up using these ideas but grouping them differently, lmk what you think. Do you know whether any of the runtimes listed don't support Windows, Mac, + Linux?

> Not all async runtimes are compatible with each other.

Reviewer: I like this! Thanks.

Notably, `Tokio` uses the `mio` reactor and defines its own versions of async I/O traits,
including `AsyncRead` and `AsyncWrite`.
On its own, it's not compatible with `async-std` and `smol`,
which rely on the [`async-executor` crate](https://docs.rs/async-executor).
The [`async_compat` crate](https://docs.rs/async_compat) can be used for compatibility between `Tokio` and other runtimes.

> More generally, futures that interact with async I/O, interprocess communication, or timers are tied

Reviewer: I suggest again a different h2 subheading, like "Determining ecosystem compatibility"

Although many frameworks and libraries impose requirements on specific async ecosystems, a large set of async code can be used with any ecosystem. Ecosystem constraints are not always documented, so how can you tell whether a library, type or function depends on an ecosystem or not? As a rule of thumb:

- Any async code that interacts with _async IO, timers, IPC or tasks_ generally depends on a specific async executor or reactor.
- All other async code, such as async expressions, combinators, synchronization types, and streams are usually ecosystem independent, provided that any nested futures are also ecosystem independent.
- Non-send (`!Send`) futures requires that a runtime that supports local tasks.

compatibility with your chosen runtime and with each other.

Notably, `Tokio` uses the `mio` reactor and defines its own versions of async I/O traits,
including `AsyncRead` and `AsyncWrite`.
On its own, it's not compatible with `async-std` and `smol`,
which rely on the [`async-executor` crate](https://docs.rs/async-executor), and the `AsyncRead` and `AsyncWrite`
traits defined in `futures`.

Conflicting runtime requirements can sometimes be resolved by compatibility layers
that allow you to call code written for one runtime within another.
For example, the [`async_compat` crate](https://docs.rs/async_compat) provides a compatibility layer between
`Tokio` and other runtimes.

Libraries exposing async APIs should not depend on a specific executor or reactor,
unless they need to spawn tasks or define their own async I/O or timer futures.
Ideally, only binaries should be responsible for scheduling and running tasks.

## Single Threaded vs Multi-Threaded Executors
Async executors can be single-threaded or multi-threaded.
For example, the `async-executor` crate has both a single-threaded `LocalExecutor` and a multi-threaded `Executor`.

> A multi-threaded executor makes progress on several tasks simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: nit:

```suggestion
A multi-threaded executor makes progress on several tasks in parallel.
```

since simultaneously could also be taken to mean "concurrently" which is also provided by single-threaded runtimes.

# The Async Landscape
Rust currently provides only the bare essentials for writing async code.
Importantly, executors, tasks, reactors, combinators, and low-level I/O futures and traits
are not yet provided in the standard library. In the meantime,
community-provided async ecosystems fill in these gaps.

## Async Runtimes
Async runtimes are libraries used for executing async applications.
Runtimes usually bundle together a *reactor* with one or more *executors*.
Reactors provide subscription mechanisms for external events, like async I/O, interprocess communication, and timers.
In an async runtime, subscribers are typically futures representing low-level I/O operations.
Executors handle the scheduling and execution of tasks.
They keep track of running and suspended tasks, poll futures to completion, and wake tasks when they can make progress.
The word "executor" is frequently used interchangeably with "runtime".

> The word "ecosystem" can be used to describe a runtime bundled with compatible traits and features.

Reviewer: Nit: "Here we use..." to be clearer.
